Skip to main content

[AAAS](//www.aaas.org)

[ScienceMag.org](https://www.sciencemag.org)

[ Search Search ](javascript:void\(0\))

[X](javascript:void\(0\))

Advanced Search

[Science Translational Medicine](//stm.sciencemag.org)

  * Contents
  * News
  * Careers
  * Journals

Menu

[Read our COVID-19 research and news.](https://www.sciencemag.org/coronavirus-
research-commentary-and-news?intcmp=stm_cov)

  * [ ![](https://stm.sciencemag.org/sites/default/files/styles/toc_carousel_breakpoints_theme_science_jcore_med_1x/public/rt_scitm_sept02_aaz1863_r1.jpg?itok=XVr0dH-G&timestamp=1598896641)

](/content/12/559/eaaz1863)

## [Cover story: Driving CAR T cells  ](/content/12/559/eaaz1863)

[A combination immunotherapy using oncolytic viruses delivers CD19 to promote
CD19-CAR T cell therapy against solid tumors in mice
](/content/12/559/eaaz1863)

 [A. K. PARK, S.-I. KIM, S. J. PRICEMAN/CITY OF HOPE
](/content/12/559/eaaz1863)

  * [ ![](https://stm.sciencemag.org/sites/default/files/styles/toc_carousel_breakpoints_theme_science_jcore_med_1x/public/rt_scitm_sept02_abb3774_r2.jpg?itok=ma3W195a&timestamp=1598896725)

](/content/12/559/eabb3774)

## [Unraveling proteinopathy ](/content/12/559/eabb3774)

[G4C2 repeat-derived poly glycine-arginine protein mediates TDP-43
mislocalization and aggregation in neurodegenerative diseases in mice
](/content/12/559/eabb3774)

[Cook _et al_./_Science__ Translational Medicine_ ](/content/12/559/eabb3774)

  * [ ![](https://stm.sciencemag.org/sites/default/files/styles/toc_carousel_breakpoints_theme_science_jcore_med_1x/public/rt_scitm_sept02_aax9086_r4.jpg?itok=0Xhm5AtU&timestamp=1598896790)

](/content/12/559/eaax9086)

## [Augmenting joint regeneration ](/content/12/559/eaax9086)

[Agrin recruits joint stem cells and induces cartilage and bone formation to
heal injured joint surfaces in mice and sheep ](/content/12/559/eaax9086)

[Eldridge _et al_./_Science Translational Medicine_
](/content/12/559/eaax9086)

#  Contents

02 September 2020  
Vol 12, Issue 559

  * ## Research Articles

    * ### 

[Effective combination immunotherapy using oncolytic viruses to deliver CAR
targets to solid tumors

](/content/12/559/eaaz1863)

By Anthony K. Park, Yuman Fong, Sang-In Kim, Jason Yang, John P. Murad,
Jianming Lu, Brook Jeang, Wen-Chung Chang, Nanhai G. Chen, Sandra H. Thomas,
Stephen J. Forman, Saul J. Priceman

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

An effective combination immunotherapy using oncolytic viruses delivers de
novo CD19 to promote CD19-CAR T cell therapy against solid tumors in mice.

      * [Editor's Summary ](/content/12/559/eaaz1863.editor-summary)
      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eaaz1863.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eaaz1863.full)
      * __[ PDF ](/content/12/559/eaaz1863.full.pdf)
      * [Supplementary Materials](/content/12/559/eaaz1863/suppl/DC1)

    * ### 

_[C9orf72_ poly(GR) aggregation induces TDP-43 proteinopathy

](/content/12/559/eabb3774)

By Casey N. Cook, Yanwei Wu, Hana M. Odeh, Tania F. Gendron, Karen Jansen-
West, Giulia del Rosso, Mei Yue, Peizhou Jiang, Edward Gomes, Jimei Tong,
Lillian M. Daughrity, Nicole M. Avendano, Monica Castanedes-Casey, Wei Shao,
Björn Oskarsson, Giulio S. Tomassy, Alexander McCampbell, Frank Rigo, Dennis
W. Dickson, James Shorter, Yong-Jie Zhang, Leonard Petrucelli

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

G4C2 repeat–derived poly(GR) plays a key role in mediating TDP-43
mislocalization and aggregation in vitro and in vivo.

      * [Editor's Summary ](/content/12/559/eabb3774.editor-summary)
      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eabb3774.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eabb3774.full)
      * __[ PDF ](/content/12/559/eabb3774.full.pdf)
      * [Supplementary Materials](/content/12/559/eabb3774/suppl/DC1)

    * ### 

[Agrin induces long-term osteochondral regeneration by supporting repair
morphogenesis

](/content/12/559/eaax9086)

By Suzanne E. Eldridge, Aida Barawi, Hui Wang, Anke J. Roelofs, Magdalena
Kaneva, Zeyu Guan, Helen Lydon, Bethan L. Thomas, Anne-Sophie Thorup, Beatriz
F. Fernandez, Sara Caxaria, Danielle Strachan, Ahmed Ali, Kanatheepan
Shanmuganathan, Costantino Pitzalis, James R. Whiteford, Frances Henson,
Andrew W. McCaskie, Cosimo De Bari, Francesco Dell’Accio

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

Agrin heals joint surfaces by recruiting joint stem cells and inducing the
formation of cartilage and bone with correct architecture in mice and sheep.

      * [Editor's Summary ](/content/12/559/eaax9086.editor-summary)
      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eaax9086.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eaax9086.full)
      * __[ PDF ](/content/12/559/eaax9086.full.pdf)
      * [Supplementary Materials](/content/12/559/eaax9086/suppl/DC1)

    * ### 

[A YAP/FOXM1 axis mediates EMT-associated EGFR inhibitor resistance and
increased expression of spindle assembly checkpoint components

](/content/12/559/eaaz4589)

By Monique B. Nilsson, Huiying Sun, Jacqulyne Robichaux, Matthias Pfeifer,
Ultan McDermott, Jon Travers, Lixia Diao, Yuanxin Xi, Pan Tong, Li Shen, Mia
Hofstad, Masanori Kawakami, Xiuning Le, Xi Liu, Youhong Fan, Alissa Poteete,
Limei Hu, Marcelo V. Negrao, Hai Tran, Ethan Dmitrovsky, David Peng, Don L.
Gibbons, Jing Wang, John V. Heymach

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

YAP and FOXM1 are mediators of EGFR inhibitor resistance, and spindle proteins
are therapeutic targets for this multidrug-resistant phenotype.

      * [Editor's Summary ](/content/12/559/eaaz4589.editor-summary)
      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eaaz4589.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eaaz4589.full)
      * __[ PDF ](/content/12/559/eaaz4589.full.pdf)
      * [Supplementary Materials](/content/12/559/eaaz4589/suppl/DC1)

    * ### 

[SMOC1 is a glucose-responsive hepatokine and therapeutic target for glycemic
control

](/content/12/559/eaaz8048)

By Magdalene K. Montgomery, Jacqueline Bayliss, Camille Devereux, Ayenachew
Bezawork-Geleta, David Roberts, Cheng Huang, Ralf B. Schittenhelm, Andrew
Ryan, Scott L. Townley, Luke A. Selth, Trevor J. Biden, Gregory R. Steinberg,
Dorit Samocha-Bonet, Ruth C. R. Meex, Matthew J. Watt

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

SMOC1 is a liver-secreted glucose-responsive protein that improves glycemic
control through CREB-mediated suppression of hepatic glucose output.

      * [Editor's Summary ](/content/12/559/eaaz8048.editor-summary)
      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eaaz8048.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eaaz8048.full)
      * __[ PDF ](/content/12/559/eaaz8048.full.pdf)
      * [Supplementary Materials](/content/12/559/eaaz8048/suppl/DC1)

    * ### 

[A comparison of four serological assays for detecting anti–SARS-CoV-2
antibodies in human serum samples from different populations

](/content/12/559/eabc3103)

By Ludivine Grzelak, Sarah Temmam, Cyril Planchais, Caroline Demeret, Laura
Tondeur, Christèle Huon, Florence Guivel-Benhassine, Isabelle Staropoli,
Maxime Chazal, Jeremy Dufloo, Delphine Planas, Julian Buchrieser, Maaran
Michael Rajah, Remy Robinot, Françoise Porrot, Mélanie Albert, Kuang-Yu Chen,
Bernadette Crescenzo-Chaigne, Flora Donati, François Anna, Philippe Souque,
Marion Gransagne, Jacques Bellalou, Mireille Nowakowski, Marija Backovic, Lila
Bouadma, Lucie Le Fevre, Quentin Le Hingrat, Diane Descamps, Annabelle
Pourbaix, Cédric Laouénan, Jade Ghosn, Yazdan Yazdanpanah, Camille Besombes,
Nathalie Jolly, Sandrine Pellerin-Fernandes, Olivia Cheny, Marie-Noëlle
Ungeheuer, Guillaume Mellon, Pascal Morel, Simon Rolland, Felix A. Rey, Sylvie
Behillil, Vincent Enouf, Audrey Lemaitre, Marie-Aude Créach, Stephane Petres,
Nicolas Escriou, Pierre Charneau, Arnaud Fontanet, Bruno Hoen, Timothée Bruel,
Marc Eloit, Hugo Mouquet, Olivier Schwartz, Sylvie van der Werf

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

Different serological assays measuring anti–SARS-CoV-2 antibodies and their
neutralizing activity in samples from individuals with severe and mild
COVID-19 are compared.

      * [Editor's Summary ](/content/12/559/eabc3103.editor-summary)
      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eabc3103.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eabc3103.full)
      * __[ PDF ](/content/12/559/eabc3103.full.pdf)
      * [Supplementary Materials](/content/12/559/eabc3103/suppl/DC1)

  * ## Editors' Choice

    * ### 

[Organoids control glucose

](/content/12/559/eabe4433)

By Bence György

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

Human islet-like organoids improve glucose control in immunocompetent mice.

      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eabe4433.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eabe4433.full)

    * ### 

[PARP inhibitors unleash the antitumor immune response

](/content/12/559/eabe4434)

By Ecaterina Ileana-Dumbrava

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

Combination of a PARP inhibitor with immune checkpoint blockade showed
promising antitumor activity without additional toxicity.

      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eabe4434.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eabe4434.full)

    * ### 

[Shedding light on heart failure

](/content/12/559/eabe4436)

By Ellen T. Roche

_Science Translational Medicine_02 Sep 2020 __Full Access__Restricted Access

Optogenetic stimulation of vagal preganglionic neurons preserved left
ventricular ejection fraction in an experimental heart failure model.

      * [Abstract ](/content/12/559/eabe4436.abstract)
      * [Full Text ](/content/12/559/eabe4436.full)

###  More From Science Translational Medicine

  * [Current Table of Contents](/content/current)
  * [First Release Science Translational Medicine Papers](/content/early/recent)
  * [Archive](/content/by/year)
  * [In the Pipeline](//blogs.sciencemag.org/pipeline)
  * [About Science Translational Medicine](//www.sciencemag.org/authors/science-translational-medicine)
    * [Mission and Scope](/site/misc/about.xhtml)
    * [Editors and Advisory Boards](/content/editorial-staff-and-scientific-advisory-boards)
    * [Editorial Policies](/content/science-translational-medicine-general-policies)
    * [Information for Authors](/content/information-authors)
    * [Information for Reviewers](/content/information-reviewers)
    * [Staff](/content/staff)
    * [Contact Us](/content/contact-science-translational-medicine)
    * [Subscribe](//pubs.aaas.org/Promo/promo_setup_rd.asp?dmc=P9XGH)
  * [Remote Access for Current Subscribers](https://www.sciencemag.org/subscribe/remote-access)
  * [Editor's Blog](https://blogs.sciencemag.org/editors-blog)
  * [Get the Science Translational Medicine eTOC Alert](//www.sciencemag.org/subscribe/get-our-newsletters)
  * [Submit](//cts.sciencemag.org/scc/login.html)
  * [Free Sample Articles](https://www.sciencemag.org/journals/stm/free-sample-articles)

##  About The Cover

![Cover image expansion](https://stm.sciencemag.org/content/scitransmed/12/559
/F1.medium.gif)

**ONLINE COVER** CAR and Driver. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are a cancer immunotherapy engineered to recognize a specific antigen on a tumor surface. CAR T cell therapy can result in damage to healthy cells and/or tumor cells escaping destruction when a convenient target tumor antigen is not available. To address this problem, [Park _et al_.](https://stm.sciencemag.org/content/12/559/eaaz1863) first infected tumors with an oncolytic virus to express the antigen CD19, then delivered CAR T cells recognizing CD19 to destroy these tumors. The image shows a tumor infected with an oncolytic virus (green), with cell nuclei in blue. [CREDIT: A. K. PARK, S.-I. KIM, S. J. PRICEMAN/CITY OF HOPE]

## [Read the Latest Issue of
_Science_](https://pubs.aaas.org/Promo/promo_setup_rd.asp?dmc=P5XPZ)

### 28 August 2020

Vol 369, Issue 6507

![Magazine Cover](https://stm.sciencemag.org/sites/default/files/styles/sci_fo
oter_promo_cover/public/externals/e31dd6f866575db3f198cfda9e5927b9.gif?itok=kF
fdUu0P)

[Table of Contents](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6507)

  * ### Feature

[Ridding paradise of
palms](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6507/1046)

  * ### Social Science

[Computational social science: Obstacles and
opportunities](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6507/1060)

  * ### Archaeology

[Secrets of the Vikings](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6507/1063)

  * ### SCI COMMUN

[News at a glance](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6507/1036)

  * ### Viewpoint: COVID-19

[Bridging digital health
divides](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6507/1050)

  * ### Working Life

[One, two, three, thrive](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6507/1138)

  * [About Us](//sciencemag.org/about/about-us)
    * [Journals](//sciencemag.org/journals/)
    * [News from Science](//sciencemag.org/news/about-news-science)
    * [Leadership](//www.sciencemag.org/about/leadership-and-management)
    * [Team Members](//sciencemag.org/about/team-members)
    * [Work at AAAS](//aaas.org/page/employment-aaas)
  * [For Advertisers](//advertising.sciencemag.org/)
    * [Advertising Kits](//advertising.sciencemag.org/)
    * [Awards and Prizes](//sciencemag.org/prizes)
    * [Custom Publishing](//sciencemag.org/custom-publishing)
    * [Webinars](//sciencemag.org/custom-publishing/webinars)
  * [For Authors](//sciencemag.org/authors/contributing-science-family-journals)
    * [Submit](//cts.sciencemag.org/scc/#/login)
    * [Information for Authors](//sciencemag.org/authors/contributing-science-family-journals)
    * [Editorial Policies](//sciencemag.org/authors/science-journals-editorial-policies)
  * [For Librarians](//sciencemag.org/librarian)
    * [Manage Your Institutional Subscription](//science.sciencemag.org/librarian-admin-portal)
    * [Information for Librarians](//sciencemag.org/librarian)
    * [Request a Quote](//sciencemag.org/subscribe-form/request-institutional-price-quote-or-complimentary-trial-online-resources)
    * [FAQs](//sciencemag.org/librarian-portal-frequently-asked-questions)
  * [Related Sites](//sciencemag.org/related-sites)
    * [AAAS.org](//www.aaas.org)
    * [EurekAlert!](//www.eurekalert.org)
    * [Science in the Classroom](//www.scienceintheclassroom.org)
    * [Science Magazine Japanese](http://sciencemag.jp)
  * [Help](//sciencemag.org/help)
    * [Access and Subscriptions](//sciencemag.org/subscriptions)
    * [Order a Single Issue](//backissues.sciencemag.org/)
    * [Reprints and Permissions](//sciencemag.org/help/reprints-and-permissions)
    * [Contact Us](//sciencemag.org/about/contact-us)
    * [Accessibility](//sciencemag.org/about/accessibility)
  * [Stay Connected](//www.sciencemag.org/about/email-alerts-and-rss-feeds)

    * __[ Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ScienceMagazine)
    * __[ Twitter](https://twitter.com/sciencemagazine)
    * __[ YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/ScienceMag)
    * __[ RSS Feeds](//www.sciencemag.org/about/email-alerts-and-rss-feeds)

![Science/AAAS](https://stm.sciencemag.org/sites/all/themes/shared/science_jco
re/library/images/logo-aaas.svg)

(C) 2020 [American Association for the Advancement of
Science](//www.aaas.org). All rights reserved. AAAS is a partner of
[HINARI](//www.who.int/hinari/en/), [AGORA](http://www.fao.org/agora/en/),
[OARE](http://www.unep.org/oare/), [CHORUS](//www.chorusaccess.org),
[CLOCKSS](//www.clockss.org), [CrossRef](//www.crossref.org) and
[COUNTER](//www.projectcounter.org).  
_Science Translational Medicine _ISSN 1946-6242.

  * [Terms of Service](//www.sciencemag.org/about/terms-service)
  * [Privacy Policy](//www.sciencemag.org/about/privacy-policy)
  * [Contact AAAS](//www.aaas.org/contact-aaas)

# Computational biology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to navigation Jump to search

**Computational biology** involves the development and application of data-analytical and theoretical methods, [mathematical modeling](/wiki/Mathematical_modeling) and computational simulation techniques to the study of biological, ecological, behavioral, and social systems.[1] The field is broadly defined and includes foundations in [biology](/wiki/Biology), [applied mathematics](/wiki/Applied_mathematics), [statistics](/wiki/Statistics), [biochemistry](/wiki/Biochemistry), [chemistry](/wiki/Chemistry), [biophysics](/wiki/Biophysics), [molecular biology](/wiki/Molecular_biology), [genetics](/wiki/Genetics), [genomics](/wiki/Genomics), [computer science](/wiki/Computer_science), and [evolution](/wiki/Evolution).[2]

Computational biology is different from [biological
computing](/wiki/Biological_computing), which is a subfield of [computer
science](/wiki/Computer_science) and [computer
engineering](/wiki/Computer_engineering) using
[bioengineering](/wiki/Bioengineering) and [biology](/wiki/Biology) to build
[computers](/wiki/Computer).

## Contents

  * 1 Introduction
  * 2 Subfields
    * 2.1 Computational anatomy
    * 2.2 Computational biomodeling
    * 2.3 Computational genomics
    * 2.4 Computational neuroscience
    * 2.5 Computational pharmacology
    * 2.6 Computational evolutionary biology
    * 2.7 Cancer computational biology
    * 2.8 Computational neuropsychiatry
  * 3 Software and tools
    * 3.1 Open source software
  * 4 Conferences
  * 5 Journals
  * 6 Related fields
  * 7 See also
  * 8 References
  * 9 External links

## Introduction[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&se
ction=1)]

Computational biology, which includes many aspects of
[bioinformatics](/wiki/Bioinformatics), is the science of using biological
data to develop [algorithms](/wiki/Algorithms) or
[models](/wiki/Computational_modeling) in order to understand biological
systems and relationships. Until recently, biologists did not have access to
very large amounts of data. This data has now become commonplace, particularly
in [molecular biology](/wiki/Molecular_biology) and
[genomics](/wiki/Genomics). Researchers were able to develop analytical
methods for interpreting biological information, but were unable to share them
quickly among colleagues.[3]

Bioinformatics began to develop in the early 1970s. It was considered the
science of analyzing informatics processes of various biological systems. At
this time, research in [artificial
intelligence](/wiki/Artificial_intelligence) was using network models of the
human brain in order to generate new [algorithms](/wiki/Algorithms). This use
of biological data to develop other fields pushed biological researchers to
revisit the idea of using computers to evaluate and compare large data sets.
By 1982, information was being shared among researchers through the use of
punch cards. The amount of data being shared began to grow exponentially by
the end of the 1980s. This required the development of new computational
methods in order to quickly analyze and interpret relevant information.[3]

Since the late 1990s, computational biology has become an important part of
developing emerging technologies for the field of biology.[4] The terms
computational biology and [evolutionary
computation](/wiki/Evolutionary_computation) have a similar name, but are not
to be confused. Unlike computational biology, evolutionary computation is not
concerned with modeling and analyzing biological data. It instead creates
algorithms based on the ideas of evolution across species. Sometimes referred
to as [genetic algorithms](/wiki/Genetic_algorithm), the research of this
field can be applied to computational biology. While evolutionary computation
is not inherently a part of computational biology, computational evolutionary
biology is a subfield of it.[5]

Computational biology has been used to help sequence the human genome, create
accurate models of the human brain, and assist in modeling biological
systems.[3]

## Subfields[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&secti
on=2)]

### Computational anatomy[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&acti
on=edit&section=3)]

Main article: [Computational anatomy](/wiki/Computational_anatomy)

Computational anatomy is a discipline focusing on the study of anatomical
shape and form at the visible or [gross anatomical](/wiki/Gross_anatomy) 50 −
100 μ {\displaystyle 50-100\mu } ![{\\displaystyle 50-100\\mu }](https://wikim
edia.org/api/rest_v1/media/math/render/svg/646d76dcce9e39e05fe35efd352cb35470c
7fb60) scale of [morphology](/wiki/Morphology_\(biology\)). It involves the
development and application of computational, mathematical and data-analytical
methods for modeling and simulation of biological structures. It focuses on
the anatomical structures being imaged, rather than the medical imaging
devices. Due to the availability of dense 3D measurements via technologies
such as [magnetic resonance imaging](/wiki/Magnetic_resonance_imaging) (MRI),
computational anatomy has emerged as a subfield of [medical
imaging](/wiki/Medical_imaging) and [bioengineering](/wiki/Bioengineering) for
extracting anatomical coordinate systems at the morphome scale in 3D.

The original formulation of computational anatomy is as a generative model of
shape and form from exemplars acted upon via transformations.[6] The
[diffeomorphism](/wiki/Diffeomorphism) group is used to study different
coordinate systems via [coordinate transformations](/wiki/Change_of_basis) as
generated via the [Lagrangian and Eulerian velocities of
flow](/wiki/Lagrangian_and_Eulerian_specification_of_the_flow_field) from one
anatomical configuration in  R 3 {\displaystyle {\mathbb {R} }^{3}}
![{\\mathbb {R} }^{3}](https://wikimedia.org/api/rest_v1/media/math/render/svg
/d5a6b0738d188535841b461617003c7ef7bdb816) to another. It relates with [shape
statistics](/wiki/Shape_statistics) and [morphometrics](/wiki/Morphometrics),
with the distinction that [diffeomorphisms](/wiki/Diffeomorphism) are used to
map coordinate systems, whose study is known as diffeomorphometry.

### Computational biomodeling[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&
action=edit&section=4)]

Main article: [Modelling biological
systems](/wiki/Modelling_biological_systems)

Computational biomodeling is a field concerned with building [computer
models](/wiki/Computer_model) of biological systems. Computational biomodeling
aims to develop and use visual simulations in order to assess the complexity
of biological systems. This is accomplished through the use of specialized
algorithms, and visualization software. These models allow for prediction of
how systems will react under different environments. This is useful for
determining if a system is robust. A robust biological system is one that
“maintain their state and functions against external and internal
perturbations”,[7] which is essential for a biological system to survive.
Computational biomodeling generates a large archive of such data, allowing for
analysis from multiple users. While current techniques focus on small
biological systems, researchers are working on approaches that will allow for
larger networks to be analyzed and modeled. A majority of researchers believe
that this will be essential in developing modern medical approaches to
creating new drugs and gene therapy.[7] A useful modelling approach is to use
[Petri nets](/wiki/Petri_nets) via tools such as esyN [8]

### Computational genomics[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&act
ion=edit&section=5)]

![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/43/Genome_viewer_screensh
ot_small.png/220px-Genome_viewer_screenshot_small.png)

A partially sequenced genome.

Main article: [Computational genomics](/wiki/Computational_genomics)

Computational genomics is a field within [genomics](/wiki/Genomics) which
studies the [genomes](/wiki/Genome) of cells and organisms. It is sometimes
referred to as [Computational and Statistical
Genetics](/wiki/Computational_and_Statistical_Genetics) and encompasses much
of [Bioinformatics](/wiki/Bioinformatics). The [Human Genome
Project](/wiki/Human_Genome_Project) is one example of computational genomics.
This project looks to sequence the entire human genome into a set of data.
Once fully implemented, this could allow for doctors to analyze the genome of
an individual patient.[9] This opens the possibility of personalized medicine,
prescribing treatments based on an individual's pre-existing genetic patterns.
This project has created many similar programs. Researchers are looking to
sequence the genomes of animals, plants, bacteria, and all other types of
life.[10]

One of the main ways that genomes are compared is by [sequence
homology](/wiki/Sequence_homology). Homology is the study of biological
structures and nucleotide sequences in different organisms that come from a
common ancestor. Research suggests that between 80 and 90% of genes in newly
sequenced prokaryotic genomes can be identified this way.[10]

This field is still in development. An untouched project in the development of
computational genomics is the analysis of intergenic regions. Studies show
that roughly 97% of the human genome consists of these regions.[10]
Researchers in computational genomics are working on understanding the
functions of non-coding regions of the human genome through the development of
computational and statistical methods and via large consortia projects such as
[ENCODE](/wiki/ENCODE) (The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements) and the Roadmap
Epigenomics Project.

### Computational neuroscience[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology
&action=edit&section=6)]

Main article: [Computational neuroscience](/wiki/Computational_neuroscience)

Computational neuroscience is the study of brain function in terms of the
information processing properties of the structures that make up the nervous
system. It is a subset of the field of neuroscience, and looks to analyze
brain data to create practical applications.[11] It looks to model the brain
in order to examine specific types aspects of the neurological system. Various
types of models of the brain include:

  * Realistic Brain Models: These models look to represent every aspect of the brain, including as much detail at the cellular level as possible. Realistic models provide the most information about the brain, but also have the largest margin for error. More variables in a brain model create the possibility for more error to occur. These models do not account for parts of the cellular structure that scientists do not know about. Realistic brain models are the most computationally heavy and the most expensive to implement.[12]
  * Simplifying Brain Models: These models look to limit the scope of a model in order to assess a specific physical property of the neurological system. This allows for the intensive computational problems to be solved, and reduces the amount of potential error from a realistic brain model.[12]

It is the work of computational neuroscientists to improve the
[algorithms](/wiki/Algorithms) and data structures currently used to increase
the speed of such calculations.

### Computational pharmacology[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology
&action=edit&section=7)]

Computational pharmacology (from a computational biology perspective) is “the
study of the effects of genomic data to find links between specific genotypes
and diseases and then [screening drug data](/wiki/Drug_discovery)”.[13] The
[pharmaceutical industry](/wiki/Pharmaceutical_industry) requires a shift in
methods to analyze drug data. Pharmacologists were able to use Microsoft Excel
to compare chemical and genomic data related to the effectiveness of drugs.
However, the industry has reached what is referred to as the Excel barricade.
This arises from the limited number of cells accessible on a spreadsheet. This
development led to the need for computational pharmacology. Scientists and
researchers develop computational methods to analyze these massive data sets.
This allows for an efficient comparison between the notable data points and
allows for more accurate drugs to be developed.[14]

Analysts project that if major medications fail due to patents, that
computational biology will be necessary to replace current drugs on the
market. Doctoral students in computational biology are being encouraged to
pursue careers in industry rather than take Post-Doctoral positions. This is a
direct result of major pharmaceutical companies needing more qualified
analysts of the large data sets required for producing new drugs.[14]

### Computational evolutionary biology[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational
_biology&action=edit&section=8)]

Computational biology has assisted the field of evolutionary biology in many
capacities. This includes:

  * Using DNA data to reconstruct the tree of life with [computational phylogenetics](/wiki/Computational_phylogenetics)
  * Fitting [population genetics](/wiki/Population_genetics) models (either forward time[15] or [backward time](/wiki/Coalescent_theory)) to DNA data to make inferences about [demographic](/wiki/Population_growth) or [selective](/wiki/Natural_selection) history
  * Building [population genetics](/wiki/Population_genetics) models of evolutionary systems from first principles in order to predict what is likely to evolve.

### Cancer computational biology[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biolo
gy&action=edit&section=9)]

Cancer computational biology is a field that aims to determine the future
mutations in cancer through an algorithmic approach to analyzing data.
Research in this field has led to the use of high-throughput measurement. High
throughput measurement allows for the gathering of millions of data points
using robotics and other sensing devices. This data is collected from DNA,
RNA, and other biological structures. Areas of focus include determining the
characteristics of tumors, analyzing molecules that are deterministic in
causing cancer, and understanding how the human genome relates to the
causation of tumors and cancer.[16]

### Computational neuropsychiatry[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biol
ogy&action=edit&section=10)]

Computational neuropsychiatry is the emerging field that uses mathematical and
computer-assisted modeling of brain mechanisms involved in mental disorders.
It was already demonstrated by several initiatives that computational modeling
is an important contribution to understand neuronal circuits that could
generate mental functions and dysfunctions.[17][18][19]

## Software and
tools[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&section=11)]

Computational Biologists use a wide range of software. These range from
command line programs to graphical and web-based programs.

### Open source software[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&actio
n=edit&section=12)]

[Open source software](/wiki/Open_source_software) provides a platform to
develop computational biological methods. Specifically, open source means that
every person and/or entity can access and benefit from software developed in
research. [PLOS](/wiki/PLOS) cites four main reasons for the use of open
source software including:

  * [Reproducibility](/wiki/Reproducibility): This allows for researchers to use the exact methods used to calculate the relations between biological data.
  * Faster Development: developers and researchers do not have to reinvent existing code for minor tasks. Instead they can use pre-existing programs to save time on the development and implementation of larger projects.
  * Increased quality: Having input from multiple researchers studying the same topic provides a layer of assurance that errors will not be in the code.
  * Long-term availability: Open source programs are not tied to any businesses or patents. This allows for them to be posted to multiple web pages and ensure that they are available in the future.[20]

## Conferences[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&sec
tion=13)]

There are several large conferences that are concerned with computational
biology. Some notable examples are [Intelligent Systems for Molecular
Biology](/wiki/Intelligent_Systems_for_Molecular_Biology) (ISMB), [European
Conference on Computational
Biology](/wiki/European_Conference_on_Computational_Biology) (ECCB) and
[Research in Computational Molecular
Biology](/wiki/Research_in_Computational_Molecular_Biology) (RECOMB).

## Journals[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&sectio
n=14)]

There are numerous journals dedicated to computational biology. Some notable
examples include [Journal of Computational
Biology](/wiki/Journal_of_Computational_Biology) and [PLOS Computational
Biology](/wiki/PLOS_Computational_Biology). The PLOS computational biology
journal is a peer-reviewed journal that has many notable research projects in
the field of computational biology. They provide reviews on software,
tutorials for open source software, and display information on upcoming
computational biology conferences. [PLOS Computational
Biology](/wiki/PLOS_Computational_Biology) is an [open access
journal](/wiki/Open_access_journal). The publication may be openly used
provided the author is cited.[21]

## Related fields[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&
section=15)]

Computational biology, [bioinformatics](/wiki/Bioinformatics) and
[mathematical biology](/wiki/Mathematical_and_theoretical_biology) are all
interdisciplinary approaches to the life sciences that draw from quantitative
disciplines such as mathematics and [information
science](/wiki/Information_science). The
[NIH](/wiki/National_Institutes_of_Health) describes
computational/mathematical biology as the use of computational/mathematical
approaches to address theoretical and experimental questions in biology and,
by contrast, bioinformatics as the application of information science to
understand complex life-sciences data.[1]

Specifically, the NIH defines

> Computational biology: The development and application of data-analytical
and theoretical methods, mathematical modeling and computational simulation
techniques to the study of biological, behavioral, and social systems.[1]

> Bioinformatics: Research, development, or application of computational tools
and approaches for expanding the use of biological, medical, behavioral or
health data, including those to acquire, store, organize, archive, analyze, or
visualize such data.[1]

While each field is distinct, there may be significant overlap at their
interface.[1]

## See
also[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&section=16)]

  * [International Society for Computational Biology](/wiki/International_Society_for_Computational_Biology)
  * [List of bioinformatics institutions](/wiki/List_of_bioinformatics_institutions)
  * [List of biological databases](/wiki/List_of_biological_databases)
  * [Bioinformatics](/wiki/Bioinformatics)
  * [Biosimulation](/wiki/Biosimulation)
  * [Biostatistics](/wiki/Biostatistics)
  * [Computational chemistry](/wiki/Computational_chemistry)
  * [Computational science](/wiki/Computational_science)
  * [Computational history](/wiki/Computational_history)
  * [Biological simulation](/wiki/Biological_simulation)
  * [Mathematical biology](/wiki/Mathematical_biology)
  * [Monte Carlo method](/wiki/Monte_Carlo_method)
  * [Molecular modeling](/wiki/Molecular_modeling)
  * [Network biology](/wiki/Network_biology)
  * [Structural genomics](/wiki/Structural_genomics)
  * [Synthetic biology](/wiki/Synthetic_biology)
  * [Systems biology](/wiki/Systems_biology)

## References[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&sect
ion=17)]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ ["NIH working definition of bioinformatics and computational biology"](https://web.archive.org/web/20120905155331/http://www.bisti.nih.gov/docs/CompuBioDef.pdf) (PDF). Biomedical Information Science and Technology Initiative. 17 July 2000. Archived from [the original](http://www.bisti.nih.gov/docs/compubiodef.pdf) (PDF) on 5 September 2012. Retrieved 18 August 2012.
  2. **^** ["About the CCMB"](http://www.brown.edu/research/projects/computational-molecular-biology/). Center for Computational Molecular Biology. Retrieved 18 August 2012.
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Hogeweg, Paulien (7 March 2011). ["The Roots of Bioinformatics in Theoretical Biology"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3068925). _PLOS Computational Biology_. 3. **7** (3): e1002021. [Bibcode](/wiki/Bibcode_\(identifier\)):[2011PLSCB...7E2021H](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2011PLSCB...7E2021H). [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002021](https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pcbi.1002021). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\)) [3068925](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3068925). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [21483479](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21483479).
  4. **^** Bourne, Philip (2012). ["Rise and Demise of Bioinformatics? Promise and Progress"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3343106). _PLOS Computational Biology_. **8** (4): e1002487. [Bibcode](/wiki/Bibcode_\(identifier\)):[2012PLSCB...8E2487O](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012PLSCB...8E2487O). [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002487](https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pcbi.1002487). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\)) [3343106](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3343106). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [22570600](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22570600).
  5. **^** Foster, James (June 2001). "Evolutionary Computation". _Nature Reviews Genetics_. **2** (6): 428–436. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1038/35076523](https://doi.org/10.1038%2F35076523). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [11389459](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11389459).
  6. **^** Grenander, Ulf; Miller, Michael I. (1998-12-01). ["Computational Anatomy: An Emerging Discipline"](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=309082.309089). _Q. Appl. Math_. **56** (4): 617–694. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1090/qam/1668732](https://doi.org/10.1090%2Fqam%2F1668732).
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Kitano, Hiroaki (14 November 2002). "Computational systems biology". _Nature_. **420** (6912): 206–10. [Bibcode](/wiki/Bibcode_\(identifier\)):[2002Natur.420..206K](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2002Natur.420..206K). [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1038/nature01254](https://doi.org/10.1038%2Fnature01254). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [12432404](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12432404). [ProQuest](/wiki/ProQuest) [204483859](https://search.proquest.com/docview/204483859).
  8. **^** Favrin, Bean (2 September 2014). ["esyN: Network Building, Sharing and Publishing"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4152123). _PLOS One_. **9** (9): e106035. [Bibcode](/wiki/Bibcode_\(identifier\)):[2014PLoSO...9j6035B](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2014PLoSO...9j6035B). [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1371/journal.pone.0106035](https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0106035). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\)) [4152123](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4152123). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [25181461](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25181461).
  9. **^** ["Genome Sequencing to the Rest of Us"](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=personal-genome-sequencing). _Scientific American_.
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Koonin, Eugene (6 March 2001). "Computational Genomics". _Curr. Biol_. **11** (5): 155–158. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1016/S0960-9822(01)00081-1](https://doi.org/10.1016%2FS0960-9822%2801%2900081-1). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [11267880](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11267880).
  11. **^** ["Computational Neuroscience | Neuroscience"](http://www.bu.edu/neuro/academics/graduate/curriculum/computational-neuroscience/). _www.bu.edu_.
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sejnowski, Terrence; Christof Koch; Patricia S. Churchland (9 September 1988). "Computational Neuroscience". 4871. **241**. Cite journal requires `|journal=` ([help](/wiki/Help:CS1_errors#missing_periodical))
  13. **^** Price, Michael (2012-04-13). ["Computational Biologists: The Next Pharma Scientists?"](http://sciencecareers.sciencemag.org/career_magazine/previous_issues/articles/2012_04_13/caredit.a1200041).
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jessen, Walter (2012-04-15). ["Pharma's shifting strategy means more jobs for computational biologists"](http://medcitynews.com/2012/04/pharmas-shifting-strategy-means-more-jobs-for-computational-biologists/).
  15. **^** Antonio Carvajal-Rodríguez (2012). ["Simulation of Genes and Genomes Forward in Time"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2851118). _Current Genomics_. **11** (1): 58–61. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.2174/138920210790218007](https://doi.org/10.2174%2F138920210790218007). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\)) [2851118](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2851118). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [20808525](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20808525).
  16. **^** Yakhini, Zohar (2011). ["Cancer Computational Biology"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3111371). _BMC Bioinformatics_. **12**: 120. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1186/1471-2105-12-120](https://doi.org/10.1186%2F1471-2105-12-120). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\)) [3111371](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3111371). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [21521513](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21521513).
  17. **^** Dauvermann, Maria R.; Whalley, Heather C.; Schmidt, Andrã©; Lee, Graham L.; Romaniuk, Liana; Roberts, Neil; Johnstone, Eve C.; Lawrie, Stephen M.; Moorhead, Thomas W. J. (2014). ["Computational Neuropsychiatry – Schizophrenia as a Cognitive Brain Network Disorder"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3971172). _Frontiers in Psychiatry_. **5**: 30. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00030](https://doi.org/10.3389%2Ffpsyt.2014.00030). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\)) [3971172](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3971172). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [24723894](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24723894).
  18. **^** Tretter, F.; Albus, M. (2007). [""Computational Neuropsychiatry" of Working Memory Disorders in Schizophrenia: The Network Connectivity in Prefrontal Cortex - Data and Models"](http://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/88de/a522271be9de695b5ba0967505f7d93b60f4.pdf) (PDF). _Pharmacopsychiatry_. **40**: S2–S16. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1055/s-2007-993139](https://doi.org/10.1055%2Fs-2007-993139).
  19. **^** Marin-Sanguino, A.; Mendoza, E. (2008). "Hybrid Modeling in Computational Neuropsychiatry". _Pharmacopsychiatry_. **41**: S85–S88. [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1055/s-2008-1081464](https://doi.org/10.1055%2Fs-2008-1081464). [PMID](/wiki/PMID_\(identifier\)) [18756425](//pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18756425).
  20. **^** Prlić, Andreas; Lapp, Hilmar (2012). ["The PLOS Computational Biology Software Section"](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3510099). _PLOS Computational Biology_. **8** (11): e1002799. [Bibcode](/wiki/Bibcode_\(identifier\)):[2012PLSCB...8E2799P](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012PLSCB...8E2799P). [doi](/wiki/Doi_\(identifier\)):[10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002799](https://doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pcbi.1002799). [PMC](/wiki/PMC_\(identifier\)) [3510099](//www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3510099).
  21. **^** ["PLOS Computational Biology: A Peer-Reviewed Open-Access Journal"](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/s/journal-information). _journals.plos.org_.

## External
links[[edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit&section=18)]

  * [bioinformatics.org](http://www.bioinformatics.org)

  * [v](/wiki/Template:Biology_nav)
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Biology_nav)
  * [e](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Biology_nav&action=edit)

[Biology](/wiki/Biology)

  * Introduction ([Genetics](/wiki/Introduction_to_genetics), [Evolution](/wiki/Introduction_to_evolution))
  * [Outline](/wiki/Outline_of_biology)
  * [History](/wiki/History_of_biology)
  * [Timeline](/wiki/Timeline_of_biology_and_organic_chemistry)
  * [Index](/wiki/Index_of_biology_articles)

Subdisciplines

  * [Anatomy](/wiki/Anatomy)
  * [Astrobiology](/wiki/Astrobiology)
  * [Biogeography](/wiki/Biogeography)
  * [Biological anthropology](/wiki/Biological_anthropology)
  * [Biomechanics](/wiki/Biomechanics)
  * [Biophysics](/wiki/Biophysics)
  * [Bioinformatics](/wiki/Bioinformatics)
  * [Biostatistics](/wiki/Biostatistics)
  * [Botany](/wiki/Botany)
  * [Cell biology](/wiki/Cell_biology)
  * [Cellular microbiology](/wiki/Cellular_microbiology)
  * [Chemical biology](/wiki/Chemical_biology)
  * [Chronobiology](/wiki/Chronobiology)
  * [Cognitive biology](/wiki/Cognitive_biology)
  * Computational biology
  * [Conservation biology](/wiki/Conservation_biology)
  * [Developmental biology](/wiki/Developmental_biology)
  * [Ecology](/wiki/Ecology)
  * [Epidemiology](/wiki/Epidemiology)
  * [Epigenetics](/wiki/Epigenetics)
  * [Evolutionary biology](/wiki/Evolutionary_biology)
  * [Evolutionary developmental biology](/wiki/Evolutionary_developmental_biology)
  * [Genetics](/wiki/Genetics)
  * [Genomics](/wiki/Genomics)
  * [Histology](/wiki/Histology)
  * [Human biology](/wiki/Human_biology)
  * [Immunology](/wiki/Immunology)
  * [Lipidology](/wiki/Lipidology)
  * [Marine biology](/wiki/Marine_biology)
  * [Mathematical biology](/wiki/Mathematical_and_theoretical_biology)
  * [Microbiology](/wiki/Microbiology)
  * [Molecular biology](/wiki/Molecular_biology)
  * [Mycology](/wiki/Mycology)
  * [Nanobiotechnology](/wiki/Nanobiotechnology)
  * [Neuroscience](/wiki/Neuroscience)
  * [Nutrition](/wiki/Nutrition)
  * [Organic chemistry](/wiki/Organic_chemistry)
  * [Paleontology](/wiki/Paleontology)
  * [Parasitology](/wiki/Parasitology)
  * [Pathology](/wiki/Pathology)
  * [Pharmacology](/wiki/Pharmacology)
  * [Phycology](/wiki/Phycology)
  * [Physiology](/wiki/Physiology)
  * [Psychology](/wiki/Psychology)
  * [Quantum biology](/wiki/Quantum_biology)
  * [Reproductive biology](/wiki/Reproduction)
  * [Sociobiology](/wiki/Sociobiology)
  * [Structural biology](/wiki/Structural_biology)
  * [Synthetic biology](/wiki/Synthetic_biology)
  * [Systematics](/wiki/Systematics)
  * [Systems biology](/wiki/Systems_biology)
  * [Toxicology](/wiki/Toxicology)
  * [Virology](/wiki/Virology)
  * [Zoology](/wiki/Zoology)

![Tree of life by Haeckel.jpg](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/
d/de/Tree_of_life_by_Haeckel.jpg/140px-Tree_of_life_by_Haeckel.jpg)

[Hierarchy of life](/wiki/Biological_organisation)

  * [Biosphere](/wiki/Biosphere) >  [Ecosystem](/wiki/Ecosystem) > [Community (Biocoenosis)](/wiki/Biocoenosis) > [Population](/wiki/Population) >  [Organism](/wiki/Organism) > [Organ system](/wiki/Biological_system) > [Organ](/wiki/Organ_\(anatomy\)) > [Tissue](/wiki/Tissue_\(biology\)) > [Cell](/wiki/Cell_\(biology\)) > [Organelle](/wiki/Organelle) > [Biomolecular complex](/wiki/Biomolecular_complex) > [Molecule](/wiki/Molecule) ([Macromolecule](/wiki/Macromolecule), [Biomolecule](/wiki/Biomolecule)) > [Atom](/wiki/Atom)

[Foundations](/wiki/Biology)

  * [Cell theory](/wiki/Cell_theory)
  * [Ecology](/wiki/Ecology)
  * [Energy transformation](/wiki/Energy)
  * [Evolution](/wiki/Evolution)
  * [Genetics](/wiki/Genetics)
  * [Homeostasis](/wiki/Homeostasis)
  * [Taxonomy](/wiki/Taxonomy_\(biology\))

Principles

[Evolution](/wiki/Evolution)

  * [Adaptation](/wiki/Adaptation)
  * [Earliest known life forms](/wiki/Earliest_known_life_forms)
  * [Function](/wiki/Function_\(biology\))
  * [Genetic drift](/wiki/Genetic_drift)
  * [Gene flow](/wiki/Gene_flow)
  * [Macroevolution](/wiki/Macroevolution)
  * [Microevolution](/wiki/Microevolution)
  * [Mutation](/wiki/Mutation)
  * [Natural selection](/wiki/Natural_selection)
  * [Speciation](/wiki/Speciation)

[Ecology](/wiki/Ecology)

  * [Biodiversity](/wiki/Biodiversity)
  * [Biological interaction](/wiki/Biological_interaction)
  * [Community](/wiki/Community_\(ecology\))
  * [Ecosystem](/wiki/Ecosystem_ecology)
  * [Habitat](/wiki/Habitat)
  * [Niche](/wiki/Ecological_niche)
  * [Population dynamics](/wiki/Population_ecology)
  * [Resources](/wiki/Resource_\(biology\))

[Molecular  
biology](/wiki/Molecular_biology)

  * [Cell signaling](/wiki/Cell_signaling)
  * [Development](/wiki/Developmental_biology)
  * [Epigenetics](/wiki/Epigenetics)
  * [Gene regulation](/wiki/Regulation_of_gene_expression)
  * [Meiosis](/wiki/Meiosis)
  * [Mitosis](/wiki/Mitosis)
  * [Post-transcriptional modification](/wiki/Post-transcriptional_modification)

[Biochemistry](/wiki/Biochemistry)

  * [Carbohydrates](/wiki/Carbohydrate)
  * [Enzyme](/wiki/Enzyme)
  * [Lipids](/wiki/Lipid)
  * [Metabolism](/wiki/Metabolism)
  * [Nucleic acids](/wiki/Nucleic_acid)
  * [Photosynthesis](/wiki/Photosynthesis)
  * [Proteins](/wiki/Protein)

Glossaries

  * [Biology](/wiki/Glossary_of_biology)
  * [Botanical terms](/wiki/Glossary_of_botanical_terms)
  * [Ecological terms](/wiki/Glossary_of_ecology)
  * [Plant morphology terms](/wiki/Glossary_of_plant_morphology)

  * ![Category](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/48/Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg/16px-Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg.png) **[Category](/wiki/Category:Biology)**
  * ![Commons page](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/4a/Commons-logo.svg/12px-Commons-logo.svg.png) **[Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Biology)**

  * [v](/wiki/Template:Computational_science)
  * [t](/w/index.php?title=Template_talk:Computational_science&action=edit&redlink=1)
  * [e](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Computational_science&action=edit)

[Computational science](/wiki/Computational_science)

Biology

  * [Anatomy](/wiki/Computational_anatomy)
  * [Biological systems](/wiki/Modelling_biological_systems)
  * [Genomics](/wiki/Computational_genomics)
  * [Neuroscience](/wiki/Computational_neuroscience)
  * [Phylogenetics](/wiki/Computational_phylogenetics)

[Chemistry](/wiki/Computational_chemistry)

  * [Electronic structure](/wiki/Electronic_structure)
  * [Molecular mechanics](/wiki/Molecular_mechanics)

[Physics](/wiki/Computational_physics)

  * [Astrophysics](/wiki/Computational_astrophysics)
  * [Electromagnetics](/wiki/Computational_electromagnetics)
  * [Fluid dynamics](/wiki/Computational_fluid_dynamics)
  * [Mechanics](/wiki/Computational_mechanics)
  * [Particle physics](/wiki/Computational_particle_physics)

[Linguistics](/wiki/Computational_linguistics)

  * [Semantics](/wiki/Computational_semantics)
  * [Lexicology](/wiki/Computational_lexicology)

Other

  * [Finance](/wiki/Computational_finance)
  * [Materials science](/wiki/Computational_materials_science)
  * [Mathematics](/wiki/Computational_mathematics)
  * [Social science](/wiki/Computational_social_science)

  * [v](/wiki/Template:Bioinformatics)
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Bioinformatics)
  * [e](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Bioinformatics&action=edit)

[Bioinformatics](/wiki/Bioinformatics)

Databases

  * Sequence databases: [GenBank](/wiki/GenBank), [European Nucleotide Archive](/wiki/European_Nucleotide_Archive) and [DNA Data Bank of Japan](/wiki/DNA_Data_Bank_of_Japan)
  * Secondary databases: [UniProt](/wiki/UniProt), database of protein sequences grouping together [Swiss-Prot](/wiki/UniProt#UniProtKB.2FSwiss-Prot), [TrEMBL](/wiki/UniProt#UniProtKB.2FTrEMBL) and [Protein Information Resource](/wiki/Protein_Information_Resource)
  * Other databases: [Protein Data Bank](/wiki/Protein_Data_Bank), [Ensembl](/wiki/Ensembl_genome_database_project) and [InterPro](/wiki/InterPro)
  * Specialised genomic databases: [BOLD](/wiki/Barcode_of_Life_Data_System), [Saccharomyces Genome Database](/wiki/Saccharomyces_Genome_Database), [FlyBase](/wiki/FlyBase), [VectorBase](/wiki/VectorBase), [WormBase](/wiki/WormBase), [Rat Genome Database](/wiki/Rat_Genome_Database), [PHI-base](/wiki/PHI-base), [Arabidopsis Information Resource](/wiki/The_Arabidopsis_Information_Resource) and [Zebrafish Information Network](/wiki/Zebrafish_Information_Network)

Software

  * [BLAST](/wiki/BLAST)
  * [Bowtie](/wiki/Bowtie_\(sequence_analysis\))
  * [Clustal](/wiki/Clustal)
  * [EMBOSS](/wiki/EMBOSS)
  * [HMMER](/wiki/HMMER)
  * [MUSCLE](/wiki/MUSCLE_\(alignment_software\))
  * [SAMtools](/wiki/SAMtools)
  * [TopHat](/wiki/TopHat_\(bioinformatics\))

Other

  * Server: [ExPASy](/wiki/ExPASy)
  * Ontology: [Gene Ontology](/wiki/Gene_ontology)
  * [Rosalind (education platform)](/wiki/Rosalind_\(education_platform\))

Institutions

  * [Broad Institute](/wiki/Broad_Institute)
  * [Computational Biology Department](/wiki/Computational_Biology_Department) (CBD)
  * [Microsoft Research - University of Trento Centre for Computational and Systems Biology](/wiki/COSBI) (COSBI)
  * [Database Center for Life Science](/wiki/Database_Center_for_Life_Science) (DBCLS)
  * [DNA Data Bank of Japan](/wiki/DNA_Data_Bank_of_Japan) (DDBJ)
  * [European Bioinformatics Institute](/wiki/European_Bioinformatics_Institute) (EMBL-EBI)
  * [European Molecular Biology Laboratory](/wiki/European_Molecular_Biology_Laboratory) (EMBL)
  * [Flatiron Institute](/wiki/Flatiron_Institute)
  * [J. Craig Venter Institute](/wiki/J._Craig_Venter_Institute) (JCVI)
  * [Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics](/wiki/Max_Planck_Institute_of_Molecular_Cell_Biology_and_Genetics) (MPI-CBG)
  * [US National Center for Biotechnology Information](/wiki/National_Center_for_Biotechnology_Information) (NCBI)
  * [Japanese Institute of Genetics](/wiki/National_Institute_of_Genetics)
  * [Netherlands Bioinformatics Centre](/wiki/Netherlands_Bioinformatics_Centre) (NBIC)
  * [Philippine Genome Center](/wiki/Philippine_Genome_Center) (PGC)
  * [Scripps Research](/wiki/Scripps_Research)
  * [Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics](/wiki/Swiss_Institute_of_Bioinformatics) (SIB)
  * [Wellcome Sanger Institute](/wiki/Wellcome_Sanger_Institute)
  * [Whitehead Institute](/wiki/Whitehead_Institute)

Organizations

  * [African Society for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology](/wiki/African_Society_for_Bioinformatics_and_Computational_Biology) (ASBCB)
  * [Australia Bioinformatics Resource](/wiki/Australia_Bioinformatics_Resource) (EMBL-AR)
  * [European Molecular Biology network](/wiki/EMBnet) (EMBnet)
  * [International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration](/wiki/International_Nucleotide_Sequence_Database_Collaboration) (INSDC)
  * [International Society for Biocuration](/wiki/International_Society_for_Biocuration) (ISB)
  * [International Society for Computational Biology](/wiki/International_Society_for_Computational_Biology) (ISCB) 
    * [Student Council](/wiki/International_Society_for_Computational_Biology_Student_Council) (ISCB-SC)
  * [Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology](/wiki/Institute_of_Genomics_and_Integrative_Biology) (CSIR-IGIB)
  * [Japanese Society for Bioinformatics](/wiki/Japanese_Society_for_Bioinformatics) (JSBi)

Meetings

  * [Basel Computational Biology Conference‎](/wiki/Basel_Computational_Biology_Conference) ([BC2])
  * [European Conference on Computational Biology](/wiki/European_Conference_on_Computational_Biology) (ECCB)
  * [Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology](/wiki/Intelligent_Systems_for_Molecular_Biology) (ISMB)
  * [International Conference on Bioinformatics](/wiki/International_Conference_on_Bioinformatics) (InCoB)
  * [ISCB Africa ASBCB Conference on Bioinformatics](/wiki/ISCB_Africa_ASBCB_Conference_on_Bioinformatics)
  * [Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing](/wiki/Pacific_Symposium_on_Biocomputing) (PSB)
  * [Research in Computational Molecular Biology](/wiki/Research_in_Computational_Molecular_Biology) (RECOMB)

File formats

  * [CRAM format](/wiki/CRAM_\(file_format\))
  * [FASTA format](/wiki/FASTA_format)
  * [FASTQ format](/wiki/FASTQ_format)
  * [NeXML format](/wiki/NeXML_format)
  * [Nexus format](/wiki/Nexus_file)
  * [Pileup format](/wiki/Pileup_format)
  * [SAM format](/wiki/SAM_\(file_format\))
  * [Stockholm format](/wiki/Stockholm_format)

Related topics

  * Computational biology
  * [List of biological databases](/wiki/List_of_biological_databases)
  * [Molecular phylogenetics](/wiki/Molecular_phylogenetics)
  * [Sequencing](/wiki/Sequencing)
  * [Sequence database](/wiki/Sequence_database)
  * [Sequence alignment](/wiki/Sequence_alignment)

  * ![Category](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/48/Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg/16px-Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg.png) **[Category](/wiki/Category:Bioinformatics)**
  * ![Commons page](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/4a/Commons-logo.svg/12px-Commons-logo.svg.png) **[Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Bioinformatics)**

![](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1)

Retrieved from "[https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computational_biol
ogy&oldid=976486767](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computational_
biology&oldid=976486767)"

[Categories](/wiki/Help:Category):

  * [Computational biology](/wiki/Category:Computational_biology)
  * [Bioinformatics](/wiki/Category:Bioinformatics)
  * [Computational fields of study](/wiki/Category:Computational_fields_of_study)

Hidden categories:

  * [CS1 errors: missing periodical](/wiki/Category:CS1_errors:_missing_periodical)

## Navigation menu

###  Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * [Talk](/wiki/Special:MyTalk)
  * [Contributions](/wiki/Special:MyContributions)
  * [Create account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Computational+biology)
  * [Log in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Computational+biology)

###  Namespaces

  * [Article](/wiki/Computational_biology)
  * [Talk](/wiki/Talk:Computational_biology)

###  Variants

###  Views

  * [Read](/wiki/Computational_biology)
  * [Edit](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=edit)
  * [View history](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=history)

###  More

###  Search

###  Navigation

  * [Main page](/wiki/Main_Page)
  * [Contents](/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents)
  * [Current events](/wiki/Portal:Current_events)
  * [Random article](/wiki/Special:Random)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Contact us](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Donate](https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en)
  * [Wikipedia store](//shop.wikimedia.org)

###  Contribute

  * [Help](/wiki/Help:Contents)
  * [Community portal](/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal)
  * [Recent changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChanges)
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard)

###  Tools

  * [What links here](/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Computational_biology)
  * [Related changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Computational_biology)
  * [Upload file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard)
  * [Special pages](/wiki/Special:SpecialPages)
  * [Permanent link](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&oldid=976486767)
  * [Page information](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&action=info)
  * [Cite this page](/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Computational_biology&id=976486767&wpFormIdentifier=titleform)
  * [Wikidata item](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q177005)

###  Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Computational_biology&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&printable=yes)

###  In other projects

  * [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Bioinformatics)

###  Languages

  * [العربية](https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%B9%D9%84%D9%85_%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AD%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%A1_%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%A7%D8%B3%D9%88%D8%A8%D9%8A)
  * [Català](https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biologia_computacional)
  * [Español](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biolog%C3%ADa_computacional)
  * [فارسی](https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%B2%DB%8C%D8%B3%D8%AA%E2%80%8C%D8%B4%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%B3%DB%8C_%D9%85%D8%AD%D8%A7%D8%B3%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%AA%DB%8C)
  * [Français](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biologie_num%C3%A9rique)
  * [한국어](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EA%B3%84%EC%82%B0%EC%83%9D%EB%AC%BC%ED%95%99)
  * [Ido](https://io.wikipedia.org/wiki/Informatikala_biologio)
  * [Bahasa Indonesia](https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biologi_komputasi)
  * [മലയാളം](https://ml.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%AE%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%AF%E0%B5%82%E0%B4%9F%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%9F%E0%B5%87%E0%B4%B7%E0%B4%A3%E0%B5%BD_%E0%B4%AC%E0%B4%AF%E0%B5%8B%E0%B4%B3%E0%B4%9C%E0%B4%BF)
  * [日本語](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E8%A8%88%E7%AE%97%E7%94%9F%E7%89%A9%E5%AD%A6)
  * [Português](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biologia_computacional)
  * [Русский](https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%8B%D1%87%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%8F_%D0%B1%D0%B8%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%B3%D0%B8%D1%8F)
  * [Simple English](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_biology)
  * [Српски / srpski](https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A0%D0%B0%D1%87%D1%83%D0%BD%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B0_%D0%B1%D0%B8%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%B3%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0)
  * [Svenska](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ber%C3%A4kningsbiologi)
  * [Türkçe](https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hesaplamal%C4%B1_biyoloji)
  * [Українська](https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9E%D0%B1%D1%87%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%BB%D1%8E%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D0%B0_%D0%B1%D1%96%D0%BE%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%B3%D1%96%D1%8F)
  * [Tiếng Việt](https://vi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinh_h%E1%BB%8Dc_t%C3%ADnh_to%C3%A1n)
  * [中文](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E8%AE%A1%E7%AE%97%E7%94%9F%E7%89%A9%E5%AD%A6)

[Edit links](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q177005
#sitelinks-wikipedia)

  * This page was last edited on 3 September 2020, at 06:11 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License); additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the [Terms of Use](//foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use) and [Privacy Policy](//foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy). Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the [Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.](//www.wikimediafoundation.org/), a non-profit organization.
  * [Privacy policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy)
  * [About Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About)
  * [Disclaimers](/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer)
  * [Contact Wikipedia](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)
  * [Mobile view](//en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computational_biology&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile)
  * [Developers](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute)
  * [Statistics](https://stats.wikimedia.org/#/en.wikipedia.org)
  * [Cookie statement](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Cookie_statement)
  * ![Wikimedia Foundation](/static/images/footer/wikimedia-button.png)
  * ![Powered by MediaWiki](/static/images/footer/poweredby_mediawiki_88x31.png)
  *[[v]: View this template
  *[[e]: Edit this template
  *[[t]: Discuss this template

